Copyright (c) 2020 Clark C. Evans, All Rights Reserved

The DataKnots4FHIR.jl package will be released under the BuyLibre
license. This work is also released under an Evaluation License.

### BuyLibre License

So that we can build a commercially supported ecosystem of useful
applications and adapters surrounding the DataKnots platform, we will be
using BuyLibre (https://buylibre.org) cooperative licensing for vertical
market software components such as this one. BuyLibre is a collective
copyright licensing society, similar to ASCAP, cooperatively owned by
creators (see https://creators.coop). Under the BuyLibre license, our
intent is to recover costs, after which the given version will be
released under the MIT/Apache license. At this time, the BuyLibre
license is still under construction; commercial license to use this
work can be obtained by emailing info@buylibre.org.

### Evaluation License

This license is meant for the express purpose of permitting public
evaluation (but not commercial use) and discussion of this software.
By distributing, installing, modifying, or using this software you
agree to be bound to the terms of this agreement.

Limited redistribution and use, as well as the creation of Derivative
Works, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of this software.

2. You may only use this software for evaluation purposes, which are
limited to: the discovery of how this software works, testing of
function or performance, the creation of prototype applications or
improvements used for demonstrations, communicating bug reports
or feature requests.

3. You may not use or distribute this software, or any Derivative
Work, in any form for commercial purposes. Examples of commercial
purposes would be running business operations, licensing, leasing,
or selling this software, or distributing this software for use
with commercial products or services.

4. You may distribute this software or Derivative Works, provided
that such copies of this software or Derivative Works are licensed
under this same Evaluation License.

By "Derivative Work" we mean any derivative work under U.S. copyright
law (or, for distribution or use outside the United States, the most
closely equivalent concept under applicable law), including, without
limitation, any improvement, translation, transformation, adaptation,
modification, arrangement, application, plugin, wrapper, shim, or 
extension based on this software.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, AGAINST INFRINGEMENT, TITLE AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL
AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
