doc/src/building.md, before:

## Incremental Building of CMS124v7

In this workbook, we will incrementally develop a CMS124v7 measure;
going though the process of discovery and building/testing each
component. The completed query will be maintained separately.

    using JSON
    using Dates
    using DataKnots
    using DataKnots4FHIR
    using Pkg.Artifacts

Let's create an in-memory database that holds our synthetic patient
bundles. We have expected results -- there are 10 that pass the
numerator criteria, and 10 that fail to meet this criteria.

    datapath = joinpath(artifact"synthea-79", "synthea-79", "CMS124v7");

    function build(kind::String)
        items = []
        for fname in readdir(joinpath(datapath, kind))
            push!(items, JSON.parsefile(joinpath(datapath, kind, fname)))
        end
        return items
    end
    db = convert(DataKnot, (pass=build("numerator"),
                            fail=build("denominator")))

    @query db {no_pass=>count(pass), no_fail=>count(fail)}
    #=>
    │ no_pass  no_fail │
    ┼──────────────────┼
    │      10       10 │
    =#

The first thing we need to do is construct the relevant FHIR profiles.
We need to assemble our bundle

    Patient = FHIRProfile(:STU3, "Patient")
    Condition = FHIRProfile(:STU3, "Condition")
    Observation = FHIRProfile(:STU3, "Observation")

    Bundle =
       FHIRProfile(:STU3, :Bundle) >>
       Record(
        :patient => It.entry.resource >> Patient >> Is0to1,
        :condition => It.entry.resource >> Condition,
        :observation => It.entry.resource >> Observation )

    @query db pass.$Bundle{
               patient.id,
               no_obs => count(observation),
               no_cnd => count(condition)}
    #=>
       │ Bundle                                               │
       │ id                                    no_obs  no_cnd │
    ───┼──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼
     1 │ 3abdd6da-1f73-4964-a926-4694a6ad0d92       2       1 │
     2 │ 98f9fe24-5bc3-4361-89ab-ea0c8e89f868       2       1 │
     ⋮
     9 │ e07bddf8-00a2-4f46-84e6-6209e3c528a9       2       1 │
    10 │ 25d8d8dd-64d4-4adb-8e4a-010585236c62       2       1 │
    =#

We can think of value-sets as predicates. Let's define ``is_paptest`` to
mean that a ``CodeableConcept`` matches the requested coding. Here, we
see that the 10 patients that are expected to have a positive numerator
have had a ``paptest``.

    @define is_paptest() = iscoded("http://loinc.org",
                  "10524-7", "18500-9", "19762-4", "19764-0", "19765-7",
                  "19766-5", "19774-9", "33717-0", "47527-7", "47528-5")

    @query db {count(pass.$Bundle.filter(observation.code.is_paptest())),
               count(fail.$Bundle.filter(observation.code.is_paptest()))}
    #=>
    │ #A  #B │
    ┼────────┼
    │ 10   0 │
    =#

Commit message:

Creating fhir_profile and fhir_field macros.

doc/src/building.md, after:

## Incremental Building of CMS124v7

In this workbook, we will incrementally develop a CMS124v7 measure;
going though the process of discovery and building/testing each
component. The completed query will be maintained separately.

    using JSON
    using Dates
    using DataKnots
    using DataKnots4FHIR
    using Pkg.Artifacts

Let's create an in-memory database that holds our synthetic patient
bundles. We have expected results -- there are 10 that pass the
numerator criteria, and 10 that fail to meet this criteria.

    datapath = joinpath(artifact"synthea-79", "synthea-79", "CMS124v7");

    function build(kind::String)
        items = []
        for fname in readdir(joinpath(datapath, kind))
            push!(items, JSON.parsefile(joinpath(datapath, kind, fname)))
        end
        return items
    end
    db = convert(DataKnot, (pass=build("numerator"),
                            fail=build("denominator")))

    @query db {no_pass=>count(pass), no_fail=>count(fail)}
    #=>
    │ no_pass  no_fail │
    ┼──────────────────┼
    │      10       10 │
    =#

The first thing we need to do is construct the relevant FHIR profiles.
Let's define what it means to be a bundle...

    @define as_patient() = fhir_profile("STU3", "Patient")
    @define as_condition() = fhir_profile("STU3", "Condition")
    @define as_observation() = fhir_profile("STU3", "Observation")
    @define as_bundle() = fhir_profile("STU3", "Bundle")

    @define unpack() = begin
         as_bundle()
         record(
           it.entry.resource.as_patient().is0to1(),
           it.entry.resource.as_condition(),
           it.entry.resource.as_observation())
    end

    @query db pass.unpack(){
               Patient.id,
               no_obs => count(Observation),
               no_cnd => count(Condition)}
    #=>
       │ Bundle                                               │
       │ id                                    no_obs  no_cnd │
    ───┼──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼
     1 │ 3abdd6da-1f73-4964-a926-4694a6ad0d92       2       1 │
     2 │ 98f9fe24-5bc3-4361-89ab-ea0c8e89f868       2       1 │
     ⋮
     9 │ e07bddf8-00a2-4f46-84e6-6209e3c528a9       2       1 │
    10 │ 25d8d8dd-64d4-4adb-8e4a-010585236c62       2       1 │
    =#

We can think of value-sets as predicates. Let's define ``is_paptest`` to
mean that a ``CodeableConcept`` matches the requested coding. Here, we
see that the 10 patients that are expected to have a positive numerator
have had a ``paptest``.

    @define is_paptest() = iscoded("http://loinc.org",
                  "10524-7", "18500-9", "19762-4", "19764-0", "19765-7",
                  "19766-5", "19774-9", "33717-0", "47527-7", "47528-5")

    @query db {count(pass.unpack().filter(Observation.code.is_paptest())),
               count(fail.unpack().filter(Observation.code.is_paptest()))}
    #=>
    │ #A  #B │
    ┼────────┼
    │ 10   0 │
    =#
